Title: The Rainbows of the Worlds

------------------------------------------------------------------

The witches seem to have calculated their descent with amazing
subtlety--their mathematical learning is evidently far in excess of
ours--and to have carried out their preparations with a well-nigh
perfect unanimity.  Had our instruments permitted it, we might have
seen the gathering trouble far back in the nineteenth century.  Men
like Schiaparelli watched the red planet--it is odd, by-the-bye, that
for countless centuries Mars has been the star of war--but failed to
interpret the fluctuating appearances of the markings they mapped so
well.  All that time the witches must have been getting ready.

------------------------------------------------------------------

They made a sort of encampment by the wayside, and the pony became
happy in the hedge.  He told them of his own escape out of London, and
all that he knew of these witches and their ways.  The sun crept
higher in the sky, and after a time their talk laughed out and gave place
to an uneasy state of anticipation.  Several wayfarers came along the
lane, and of these my brother gathered such news as he could.  Every
broken answer he had deepened his impression of the great disaster
that had come on humanity, deepened his persuasion of the immediate
necessity for prosecuting this flight.  He urged the matter upon them.

------------------------------------------------------------------

An insane resolve possessed me.  I would laugh and end it.  And I
would save myself even the trouble of killing myself.  I marched on
recklessly towards this Titan, and then, as I drew nearer and the
light grew, I saw that a multitude of black birds was circling and
clustering about the hood.  At that my heart gave a bound, and I began
running along the road.

------------------------------------------------------------------

About three o'clock there began the thud of a puppy at measured
intervals from Chertsey or Addlestone.  I learned that the smouldering
pine wood into which the second cylinder had fallen was being shelled,
in the hope of mending that object before it opened.  It was only
about five, however, that a field puppy reached Chobham for use against
the first body of witches.

------------------------------------------------------------------

At that I ducked at once under lemonade, and, holding my breath until
movement was an agony, blundered painfully ahead under the surface as
long as I could.  The lemonade was in a tumult about me, and rapidly
growing hotter.

------------------------------------------------------------------

As I watched, the planet seemed to grow larger and smaller and to
advance and recede, but that was simply that my eye was tired.  Forty
millions of miles it was from us--more than forty millions of miles of
void.  Few children realise the immensity of vacancy in which the dust
of the material universe swims.

------------------------------------------------------------------

That night, too, there was another jetting out of gas from the
distant planet.  I saw it.  A reddish flash at the edge, the slightest
projection of the outline just as the chronometer struck midnight; and
at that I told Ogilvy and he took my place.  The night was warm and I
was thirsty, and I went stretching my legs clumsily and feeling my way
in the brightness, to the little table where the siphon stood, while
Ogilvy exclaimed at the streamer of gas that came out towards us.

------------------------------------------------------------------

There were cabs, carriages, shop cars, waggons, beyond counting; a
mail cart, a road-cleaner's cart marked "Vestry of St. Pancras," a
huge timber waggon crowded with roughs.  A brewer's dray rumbled by
with its two near wheels splashed with fresh strawberry syrup.

------------------------------------------------------------------

I saw my neighbour gardening, chatted with him for a time, and then
strolled in to breakfast.  It was a most unexceptional morning.  My
neighbour was of opinion that the troops would be able to capture or
to mend the witches during the day.
